---
title: '2024-08-09 Random Forest Model Prediction Result'
date: 2024-08-09
permalink: /posts/2024/08/random-forest-model-prediction-result_2024-08-09_12/
tags:
  - rf reg result
  - rf clf result
  - updated on 2024-08-09
---
## Ticker Rank List: Uptrend to Downtrend This document presents a rank list of tickers based on their predicted trend, from uptrend to downtrend. The predictions are generated by three different models:
 CSV Result can be download [ Here ](https://cliffordhu.github.io/images/2024-08-09-random-forest-model-prediction-result_2024-08-09_12.csv) 

* **0- LSTM Model (15-Day Lookback):** This model uses Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks to predict the next 15 days' price slope (K-slope). 
* **1- RF Model (15-Day Lookback):** This random forest (RF) classification model predicts whether the future 15-day price slope is positive based on 300 decision trees trained on 260 features. These features encompass: 
     * a. Price action- EMA,Passed Gain, Vol. ATR?...  
     * b. Momentum indicators  RSI, CCI,...  
     * c. Oscillation indicators  BB, MACD, KDJ... 
     * d. Macroeconomic indicators Interest Rate, VIX, Exchange Rate, gloal market, CPI? GDP? Fed decision? Employeement rate change? 
 * **2- RF Model (39-Day Lookback):** Similar to model 1, but with a 39-day lookback window for its predictions. 

 **Model Training Date:** 2024-08-09-12 
 
 **Important Considerations:** 
 
 * **Bias:** The model is biased towards long positions and may not be accurate for short positions. It's recommended for portfolio sizing, ticker screening, risk management, not for day trading.
 * **Unforeseen Events:** Avoid using the model near major events like earnings announcements, Fed decisions, etc., as it may not capture these impacts. It's best suited for stable instruments like indices and ETFs.
 * **Overfitting:** Due to the inherent overfitting problem, this model is best used as a directional guidance tool within your investment strategy. For example, consider a put-shorting scenario:
     * Select candidates only when: 
         * The classification RF model (CLF) votes indicate a high probability of a positive price move.
         * The LSTM and regression RF (REG) K-means are positive. 
         * The past 5 days' trend for all indicators is positive. 
 
 **Disclaimer:** This model is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered financial advice. Always conduct your own research and due diligence before making investment decisions.



** Result Table **

</details>

| Symbol   | 0 LSTM Prediction   | 0 5-day Trend of LSTM   | 1 Vote for Positve %   | 1 5-day Trend of Vote   | 1 K mean predicted by reggresion   | 1 5-day Trend of K mean   | 2 Vote for Positve %   | 2 5-day Trend of Vote   | 2 K mean predicted by reggresion   | 2 5-day Trend of K mean   | 3 LDA Gain Loss dB   | Total   | Sector   | Rank   | Rank Percent   |
|----------|---------------------|-------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------|---------|----------|--------|----------------|
 </details>

