---
title: '2025-02-12 Random Forest Model Prediction Result'
date: 2025-02-12
permalink: /posts/2025/02/random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-02-12_15/
tags:
  - rf reg result
  - rf clf result
  - updated on 2025-02-12
---
## Ticker Rank List: Uptrend to Downtrend This document presents a rank list of tickers based on their predicted trend, from uptrend to downtrend. The predictions are generated by three different models: CSV Result can be download [ Here ](https://cliffordhu.github.io/images/2025-02-11-random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-02-11_22.csv) 
 The features use Long (24-day) and Short-Term (12-day) selected Momentum indicators, Swing indicators, and Macro-Economical indicators to predict the gain over the next 32-Trading Day/45 Calendar Day.  To convert the time series data to static rows, the EMA, K-slope, and Bollinger Bands are added to these indicators to reflect their trend behaviors. The gain is divided into categorical levels from -4 to 4, where each segment represents a gain interval of 3.33%. For example, -4 represents less than -10%, and 1 represents a gain of 0-3.33%.

**0 - Random Forest Model:** The RF model predicts the probability of each categorical gain. The final result is the weighted average gain across all categories.
 
**1 - LDA Model:** The LDA model is a dimensionality reduction algorithm. It reduces the features to three dimensions, which can be visualized as a 3D scatter plot. The separation is better than with PCA. the result is the average weighted distance ratio (in dB) of the 10 closest positive gain/cloeset negtive gain 
 
 **2 - QDA Model:** The QDA model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features.  
 
 **3 - Kernel Model:** The svc model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features. 
 
 **Model Training Date:** 2025-02-12-15 
 
  * **Bias:** The model is biased towards long positions and may not be accurate for short positions. It's recommended for portfolio sizing, ticker screening, risk management, not for day trading. 
 * **Unforeseen Events:** Avoid using the model near major events like earnings announcements, Fed decisions, etc., as it may not capture these impacts. It's best suited for stable instruments like indices and ETFs.
 * **Overfitting:** Due to the inherent overfitting problem, this model is best used as a directional guidance tool within your investment strategy. For example, consider a put-shorting scenario:
     * Select candidates only when: 
         * The classification RF model (CLF) votes indicate a high probability of a positive price move.
     * The LDA is above 8dB
     * the QDA and SVC model are positive.
     * Verify the preformance by comparing the prediciton from 32 days ago to today. 

  **Disclaimer:** This model is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered financial advice. Always conduct your own research and due diligence before making investment decisions.




** Result Table **

</details>

|    | Symbol                                                  |   rf_all |   rf_trend_short |   rf_trend_long |   rf_swing_short |   rf_swing_long |   lda_all |   lda_trend_short |   lda_trend_long |   lda_swing_short |   lda_swing_long |   pda_all |   pda_trend_short |   pda_trend_long |   pda_swing_short |   pda_swing_long |   svc_all |   svc_trend_short |   svc_trend_long |   svc_swing_short |   svc_swing_long |   Mean_rf |   Mean_lda |   Mean_qda |   Mean_svc |     Offset |   Close |   Total | Sector                 |   Rank |   Rank Percent |
|---:|:--------------------------------------------------------|---------:|-----------------:|----------------:|-----------------:|----------------:|----------:|------------------:|-----------------:|------------------:|-----------------:|----------:|------------------:|-----------------:|------------------:|-----------------:|----------:|------------------:|-----------------:|------------------:|-----------------:|----------:|-----------:|-----------:|-----------:|-----------:|--------:|--------:|:-----------------------|-------:|---------------:|
|  0 | [ONON](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/ONON/financials) |  92.5479 |          74.4251 |         77.4541 |          35.6636 |         99.0603 |  -1.32801 |           10.4336 |          19.5807 |           5.06103 |          9.68642 |       nan |               nan |              nan |               nan |              nan |         4 |                 4 |                4 |                 4 |                4 |   75.8302 |    8.68676 |          4 |          4 | 0.00725386 |   54.04 |       3 | Consumer Discretionary |      1 |              0 |
 </details>

