---
title: '2025-03-06 Random Forest Model Prediction Result'
date: 2025-03-06
permalink: /posts/2025/03/random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-03-06_10/
tags:
  - rf reg result
  - rf clf result
  - updated on 2025-03-06
---
## Ticker Rank List: Uptrend to Downtrend This document presents a rank list of tickers based on their predicted trend, from uptrend to downtrend. The predictions are generated by three different models: CSV Result can be download [ Here ](https://cliffordhu.github.io/images/2025-02-11-random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-02-11_22.csv) 
 The features use Long (24-day) and Short-Term (12-day) selected Momentum indicators, Swing indicators, and Macro-Economical indicators to predict the gain over the next 32-Trading Day/45 Calendar Day.  To convert the time series data to static rows, the EMA, K-slope, and Bollinger Bands are added to these indicators to reflect their trend behaviors. The gain is divided into categorical levels from -4 to 4, where each segment represents a gain interval of 3.33%. For example, -4 represents less than -10%, and 1 represents a gain of 0-3.33%.

**0 - Random Forest Model:** The RF model predicts the probility of each categorical gain. The final result is the weighted average gain across all categories.
 
**1 - Xgboost Model:** The XGBoost model is simiar to RF model but more efficient. It predict the probility of each categorical gain. The final result is the weighted average gain across all categories. 
 
 **2 - LDA Model:** The LDA model is a dimensionality reduction algorithm. It reduces the features to three dimensions, which can be visualized as a 3D scatter plot. The separation is better than with PCA. the result is the average weighted distance ratio (in dB) of the 10 closest positive gain/cloeset negtive gain 
 
 **3 - QDA Model:** The QDA model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features.  
 
 **4 - Kernel Model:** The svc model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features. 
 
 **5 - Knn Model:** The nearest neighbor KNN model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features. 
 
 **Model Training Date:** 2025-03-06-10 
 
  * **Bias:** The model is biased towards long positions and may not be accurate for short positions. It's recommended for portfolio sizing, ticker screening, risk management, not for day trading. 
 * **Unforeseen Events:** Avoid using the model near major events like earnings announcements, Fed decisions, etc., as it may not capture these impacts. It's best suited for stable instruments like indices and ETFs.
 * **Overfitting:** Due to the inherent overfitting problem, this model is best used as a directional guidance tool within your investment strategy. For example, consider a put-shorting scenario:
     * Select candidates only when: 
         * The classification RF model (CLF) votes indicate a high probability of a positive price move.
     * The LDA is above 8dB
     * the QDA and SVC model are positive.
     * Verify the preformance by comparing the prediciton from 32 days ago to today. 

  **Disclaimer:** This model is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered financial advice. Always conduct your own research and due diligence before making investment decisions.




** Result Table **

</details>

|    | Symbol                                                |   xgb32_all |   lgb32_all |   rf32_all |   ctb32_all |   close32 |   knn32_all |   qda32_all |   lda32_all |   xgb16_all |   lgb16_all |   rf16_all |   ctb16_all |   close16 |   knn16_all |   qda16_all |   lda16_all |   xgb8_all |   lgb8_all |   rf8_all |   ctb8_all |   close8 |   knn8_all |   qda8_all |   lda8_allOffset | Sector   |   rank32 |   rank16 |    rank8 |   Total32 |   Total16 |    Total8 |
|---:|:------------------------------------------------------|------------:|------------:|-----------:|------------:|----------:|------------:|------------:|------------:|------------:|------------:|-----------:|------------:|----------:|------------:|------------:|------------:|-----------:|-----------:|----------:|-----------:|---------:|-----------:|-----------:|-----------------:|:---------|---------:|---------:|---------:|----------:|----------:|----------:|
|  0 | [SPY](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPY/financials) |     1.8529  |     1.62081 |   0.861701 |     2.60893 |   572.395 |           1 |         nan |     4.86967 |     1.84118 |     1.54441 |   0.978532 |     1.76895 |   572.395 |           1 |         nan |     1.11681 |    1.65958 |    1.14119 |  0.45163  |    1.04658 |  572.395 |          1 |          1 |              nan | ETF      | 0.746094 | 0.851562 | 0.769531 |       nan | nan       |   1.07212 |
|  1 | [QQQ](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/QQQ/financials) |     3.28151 |     2.7535  |   3.39924  |     5.60889 |   489.77  |           2 |         nan |     7.16855 |     3.5179  |     3.28967 |   2.2465   |     2.85606 |   489.77  |           2 |           1 |     2.6768  |    1.92573 |    1.60869 |  0.853949 |    1.43304 |  489.77  |          1 |        nan |              nan | ETF      | 0.742188 | 0.949219 | 0.878906 |       nan |   2.57363 | nan       |
 </details>

