---
title: '2025-02-24 Random Forest Model Prediction Result'
date: 2025-02-24
permalink: /posts/2025/02/random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-02-24_20/
tags:
  - rf reg result
  - rf clf result
  - updated on 2025-02-24
---
## Ticker Rank List: Uptrend to Downtrend This document presents a rank list of tickers based on their predicted trend, from uptrend to downtrend. The predictions are generated by three different models: CSV Result can be download [ Here ](https://cliffordhu.github.io/images/2025-02-11-random-forest-model-prediction-result_2025-02-11_22.csv) 
 The features use Long (24-day) and Short-Term (12-day) selected Momentum indicators, Swing indicators, and Macro-Economical indicators to predict the gain over the next 32-Trading Day/45 Calendar Day.  To convert the time series data to static rows, the EMA, K-slope, and Bollinger Bands are added to these indicators to reflect their trend behaviors. The gain is divided into categorical levels from -4 to 4, where each segment represents a gain interval of 3.33%. For example, -4 represents less than -10%, and 1 represents a gain of 0-3.33%.

**0 - Random Forest Model:** The RF model predicts the probility of each categorical gain. The final result is the weighted average gain across all categories.
 
**1 - Xgboost Model:** The XGBoost model is simiar to RF model but more efficient. It predict the probility of each categorical gain. The final result is the weighted average gain across all categories. 
 
 **2 - LDA Model:** The LDA model is a dimensionality reduction algorithm. It reduces the features to three dimensions, which can be visualized as a 3D scatter plot. The separation is better than with PCA. the result is the average weighted distance ratio (in dB) of the 10 closest positive gain/cloeset negtive gain 
 
 **3 - QDA Model:** The QDA model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features.  
 
 **4 - Kernel Model:** The svc model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features. 
 
 **5 - Knn Model:** The nearest neighbor KNN model is a categorical data separation algorithm. It predicts the gain category directly by non-linear boundary. The model is trained by  2/3 of features using pca feature reduction to reduce overfitting and redudant features. 
 
 **Model Training Date:** 2025-02-24-20 
 
  * **Bias:** The model is biased towards long positions and may not be accurate for short positions. It's recommended for portfolio sizing, ticker screening, risk management, not for day trading. 
 * **Unforeseen Events:** Avoid using the model near major events like earnings announcements, Fed decisions, etc., as it may not capture these impacts. It's best suited for stable instruments like indices and ETFs.
 * **Overfitting:** Due to the inherent overfitting problem, this model is best used as a directional guidance tool within your investment strategy. For example, consider a put-shorting scenario:
     * Select candidates only when: 
         * The classification RF model (CLF) votes indicate a high probability of a positive price move.
     * The LDA is above 8dB
     * the QDA and SVC model are positive.
     * Verify the preformance by comparing the prediciton from 32 days ago to today. 

  **Disclaimer:** This model is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered financial advice. Always conduct your own research and due diligence before making investment decisions.




** Result Table **

</details>

| Symbol   | xgb_all   | xgb_trend_short   | xgb_trend_long   | xgb_swing_short   | xgb_swing_long   | Mean_xgb   | lgb_all   | lgb_trend_short   | lgb_trend_long   | lgb_swing_short   | lgb_swing_long   | Mean_lgb   | rf_all   | rf_trend_short   | rf_trend_long   | rf_swing_short   | rf_swing_long   | Mean_rf   | ctb_all   | ctb_trend_short   | ctb_trend_long   | ctb_swing_short   | ctb_swing_long   | Mean_ctb   | knn_all   | knn_trend_short   | knn_trend_long   | knn_swing_short   | knn_swing_long   | Mean_knn   | qda_all   | qda_trend_short   | qda_trend_long   | qda_swing_short   | qda_swing_long   | Mean_qda   | lda_all   | lda_trend_short   | lda_trend_long   | lda_swing_short   | lda_swing_long   | Mean_lda   | rf_xgb_lgb_rank   | Offset   | Close   | Total   | Sector   | Rank   | Rank Percent   |
|----------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|----------|------------------|-----------------|------------------|-----------------|-----------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------|-------------------|----------|---------|---------|----------|--------|----------------|
 </details>

